README.md, before:

# Theme by Folder

Automatically switch Obsidian themes based on the folder of the opened note.

## Preview

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cdf6700d-08c4-498a-8fec-ba0ab977adc3

## Features

- **Auto Theme Switching**: Instantly changes your Obsidian theme when you open a note in a configured folder.
- **Per-Folder Configuration**: Assign custom themes to specific vault folders.
- **Fallback Theme**: Define a default theme to use when no folder mapping matches.
- **Lightweight & Fast**: Minimal performance impact with simple path-based matching.
- **User-Friendly UI**: Configure mappings directly in Obsidian’s Settings → Theme by Folder.

## Installation

### Manual Installation

1. Download or clone this repository into your vault’s plugins folder:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder .obsidian/plugins/theme-by-folder
    ```
2. In Obsidian, go to **Settings → Community Plugins** and enable **Theme by Folder**.
3. Reload Obsidian if the plugin doesn’t appear immediately.

### Via Community Plugins (BRAT)

You can use [BRAT (Beta Reviewer's Auto-update Tool)](https://github.com/TfTHacker/obsidian42-brat) to install this plugin before it becomes publicly listed:

1. Install the **BRAT** plugin from Obsidian's Community Plugins.
2. Go to `BRAT` settings → Click **"Add a beta plugin"**.
3. Paste the following GitHub repo URL: https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder
4. Click **Install** and **Enable** the plugin!

## Configuration

1. Open **Settings → Theme by Folder**.
2. Click **Add Mapping** to create a new mapping.
3. Enter a **Mapping Name**, choose or type the **Folder Path**, and select a **Theme** from the dropdown.
4. Repeat for additional folders as needed.
5. (Optional) Set a **Default Theme (fallback)** for unmatched folders.

## Usage

Once configured, simply open any note in your vault. The plugin will detect the note’s folder and automatically apply the corresponding theme. If no mapping is found, the Default Theme is used.

## Development

### Folder Structure

```
obsidian-theme-by-folder/
├── src/
│   ├── main.ts          # Core plugin logic
│   ├── settings.ts      # Types and default settings
│   ├── ui/              # UI components and renderers
│   └── utils/           # Utility functions
├── manifest.json        # Plugin manifest
├── package.json         # NPM package info
└── tsconfig.json        # TypeScript config
```

### Build

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

## Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Please check out the [issues page](https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder/issues) or open a [pull request](https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder/pulls)

## License

This project is licensed under the 0BSD License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

feat: add dark/light mode support (#2)
* feat: add dark/light mode support

- Add mode field to data structures (FolderThemeMapping, FolderThemeSettings)
- Implement theme and mode switching logic in main.ts
- Add mode selection UI components with Light/Dark/System options
- Add getEffectiveValue utility function for fallback logic
- Improve type safety and code quality

* docs: update documentation and version to 1.2.0

- Update README with dark/light mode feature documentation
- Bump version from 1.1.1 to 1.2.0 in manifest.json and package.json
- Update descriptions to reflect new theme and mode switching capability
- Add example use cases and configuration instructions

* chore: update TypeScript version and apply code formatting

- Update TypeScript from 4.7.4 to ~5.8.0 for better compatibility
- Apply pnpm format to improve code formatting consistency
- Update pnpm-lock.yaml with new TypeScript version
- Fix peer dependency warnings for better development experience

* fix: combinedText when empty

README.md, after:

# Theme by Folder

Automatically switch Obsidian themes based on the folder of the opened note.

## Preview

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cdf6700d-08c4-498a-8fec-ba0ab977adc3

## Features

- **Auto Theme & Mode Switching**: Instantly changes your Obsidian theme and mode (light/dark) when you open a note in a configured folder.
- **Per-Folder Configuration**: Assign custom themes and modes to specific vault folders.
- **Flexible Mode Options**: Choose between Light Mode, Dark Mode, or System Default for each folder.
- **Fallback Settings**: Define default theme and mode to use when no folder mapping matches.
- **Lightweight & Fast**: Minimal performance impact with simple path-based matching.
- **User-Friendly UI**: Configure mappings directly in Obsidian's Settings → Theme by Folder.

## Installation

### Manual Installation

1. Download or clone this repository into your vault's plugins folder:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder .obsidian/plugins/theme-by-folder
    ```
2. In Obsidian, go to **Settings → Community Plugins** and enable **Theme by Folder**.
3. Reload Obsidian if the plugin doesn't appear immediately.

### Via Community Plugins (BRAT)

You can use [BRAT (Beta Reviewer's Auto-update Tool)](https://github.com/TfTHacker/obsidian42-brat) to install this plugin before it becomes publicly listed:

1. Install the **BRAT** plugin from Obsidian's Community Plugins.
2. Go to `BRAT` settings → Click **"Add a beta plugin"**.
3. Paste the following GitHub repo URL: https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder
4. Click **Install** and **Enable** the plugin!

## Configuration

1. Open **Settings → Theme by Folder**.
2. Click **Add Mapping** to create a new mapping.
3. Enter a **Mapping Name**, choose or type the **Folder Path**, select a **Theme** from the dropdown, and choose a **Mode** (Light/Dark/System).
4. Repeat for additional folders as needed.
5. (Optional) Set **Default Theme** and **Default Mode** for unmatched folders.

## Usage

Once configured, simply open any note in your vault. The plugin will detect the note's folder and automatically apply the corresponding theme and mode. If no mapping is found, the Default Theme and Mode are used.

## Development

### Folder Structure

```
obsidian-theme-by-folder/
├── src/
│   ├── main.ts          # Core plugin logic
│   ├── settings.ts      # Types and default settings
│   ├── ui/              # UI components and renderers
│   └── utils/           # Utility functions
├── manifest.json        # Plugin manifest
├── package.json         # NPM package info
└── tsconfig.json        # TypeScript config
```

### Build

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

## Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Please check out the [issues page](https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder/issues) or open a [pull request](https://github.com/JinmuGo/obsidian-theme-by-folder/pulls)

## License

This project is licensed under the 0BSD License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
